Final Project Description:

For a vast majority of people who live in developed countries like the United States or in regions such as Europe, healthcare is widely available and for the most part reliable. For those who live in developing regions such as Africa or South-East Asia, healthcare is not up to par with the rest of the world, and treatable diseases such as Malaria could still be causing a large percent of mortality. This project uses students’ Python knowledge in Function Creation and Data Visualization to analyze data from the World Health Organization about Malaria cases and estimated deaths. With a specific focus on Malaria, we will attempt to analyze trends in data to determine the regions in which healthcare is unsuitable towards proper disease prevention and treatment. We will be using two datasets from the World Health Organization: Total Number of Malaria Cases (2010-2020) and Estimated Number of Malaria Deaths (2010 to 2020). This project includes three main parts: 1.)  The creation of code to group countries into regions and then create subsets as corresponding. This code will be handling the first dataset of Total Number of Cases. 2.) The creation of code which filters out countries with no Malaria deaths and plots final data by region. This code will be handling the second dataset of Estimated Number of Malaria Deaths. 3.) Creation of a death rate dataframe and corresponding subplots per each region. Which also includes a function which retrieves the death rate from regions given from user input. This code uses both datasets mentioned above. By first plotting the separate regions of the Total Number of Cases data we can visually analyze the separate regions which will help us determine the regions which have a less developed healthcare system and struggle with disease prevention. After plotting the separate regions of the Estimated Number of Deaths data, we can visually analyze and determine which regions struggle the most with disease treatment. Lastly, after plotting the separate death rates per region, we can comparatively determine which region struggles the most with disease prevention and treatment. By inferring the region which struggles the most in our data we can see which region likely deserves the most attention and help by more developed countries. 
